in this video we're going to learn how
to add authentication to our spell kit
application using sewer base we're going
to learn how to register new users login
users and log out users we're also going
to learn how to take advantage of both
the client and the server using some
Progressive enhancement I hope you're as
excited as I am about this video these
are two amazing Technologies and bring
them together just makes them that much
better as always links to the starting
and final code can be found in the video
description and without further Ado
let's go ahead and get started alright
so obviously the first thing we need to
do is set up a new super based project
so I'm going to go ahead and do that now
all right so while the database is being
set up we can go ahead and set up our
project in vs code uh you can start out
where I am today by just cloning the
repository that I've Linked In the
description it has some preset Styles it
has the forms already built we just
don't have any of the actual code needed
to make this work added yet so we have a
DOT EMB dot example here and as you can
see we have Public Super Bass URL and
Public Super based in on key so we can
actually get those and it looks like my
database is done so let's actually go
ahead and get those now so we go to
Project settings here then we go to API
we're going to see that we have the
project URL and the a non-public key so
we'll copy these over
so let me actually just first of all
copy these Keys here I'm going to make a
new file inside of the root called dot
EnV
I'm going to paste in those keys
and then I'm going to copy the URL from
here
and then the add-on key from here
all right so now we have these here
ready to go the next thing we need to do
is we need to actually install two
libraries here one of them is going to
be the Super Bass JavaScript SDK and
then the other one is going to be the
Super Bass auth helpers for smoke kit
Library so let's go ahead and install
both of those
and then now we can go ahead and just
run our app for the time being so we can
just start our application we'll
minimize the terminal for now and the
first thing we need to do is come into
our source folder we're going to make a
new directory called lib and then within
that we're going to make a file called
superbase.ts or dot JS if you're using
JavaScript okay this is where we're
actually going to create our super based
client that we'll be able to use across
our application so the first thing we
need to do is we need to import create
client
from
Super Bass auth helpers spell kit and
then we need to import our environment
variables that we just set up so we have
Public Super Bass in on key and we also
have Public Super Bass
URL
and those are going to come from dollar
sign EnV static public we can then
create our super based client
with create client and then we need to
pass in the URL first and then the Anon
key
and then to actually make sure this
client is initialized on both the server
and the client whenever the application
runs or whenever we hit our server we
actually want to create a
hooks.server.ts
as well as a hooks dot client dot TS and
all we have to do for the time being is
we're just going to import
lib to a base
into both of these files
okay so once that's done we can actually
close all of these for the time being
and we're going to come into our routes
and we're going to go into our layout
okay and within this file we're going to
set up a subscription to the super based
off state which will allow us to take
action when a change in Austin occurs
such as a user logging in or a user
logging out and speaking of
subscriptions don't forget to subscribe
to the channel if you haven't already
I'm trying to hit 1 million subscribers
by the end of the year I know it's a
tough goal but I think we can get there
so thank you so much and back to the
video so we're going to come into our
script tags here and let me switch this
to uh Lang equals TS because I'm earning
typescript right now and we'll set up an
on Mount
and I'm going to say const data
and then we're going to take out
subscription
equals Super Bass client dot auth dot on
Allstate change
and then we're going to invalidate all
which we need to import from App slash
navigation and then what we need to do
next is we actually need to go
underneath of this and say return
subscription.unsubscribe so now our root
layout which is loaded on every single
page is now monitoring the state of our
authentication so that it will know if
something changes we're going to
invalidate all and I will demonstrate
this here in just a bit okay now the
next thing that we're going to do is
we're actually going to create a plus
layout dot server
dot TS or JS and what this is going to
allow us to do is it's going to allow us
to pass the session so the user session
to the client okay from the server side
and we can do that if we set up a load
function here so it's going to be a
layout server load and it's just going
to take in an event
and it's going to return session which
is going to be await get server session
which is going to come from Sue based
auth helpers
and we're going to pass in the event so
what this is going to do is it's going
to pass session to the rest of our
application right because this is the
root layout and if you're familiar with
how loading Works in spell kit this
session will be available on every
subsequent Pages page data okay so we
can always check to see if this session
exists right on the client side so now
what we'll do we'll go ahead and close
out of this for the time being install
we need it from here and then we're
going to go into our hooks.server.ts and
we're actually going to set up the
handle function and we're going to say
export cons handle which is going to be
a type handle if you're using typescript
it's going to be asynchronous and it's
going to take in an event and resolve
and then what we're going to do is we're
actually going to get the session and
the sewer-based client
from the Super Bass auth helper so what
we can do is we can say const and
destructure here this session and the
super based client which is going to try
to import this but that's not what we
want
we're going to say equals
oh wait get Super Bass
and we're going to pass in the event and
we need to import gets to base from
those auth helpers here okay and then
what we're going to do is we're going to
set
event.locals.sb equal to Super based
client
and we're going to set
event.locals.session equals to the
session
and then we can do is we can just simply
return resolve event and what this is
allowing us to do is it's going to give
us access to the super based client on
every single load function right server
load function as well as the session
right so some of the sub-based
documentation shows running you know a
weight gets to a base on every single
load function what we can do is we can
actually just run it here in the hook
and then have access to it really easily
throughout the rest of our server side
load functions as well as the actions
themselves okay and we'll see this in a
second now you'll notice here if you're
using typescript you're going to have a
little squiggly line here so we can go
ahead and fix that by heading to our
app.d.ts
and then what I'm going to do is I'm
actually going to declare Global here
because I have some issues if I don't do
this
and then for locals I'm going to
uncomment this out and again if you're
not using typescript you're going to
completely ignore this stuff this does
not have any impact on how your
application works okay so we'll say SB
is going to be a typed super based
client and session is going to be
session which is going to come from Sue
base or null and then for page data if
you recall we're returning that session
here in the layout server load so if we
want to actually have type safety on the
page data session we can say session
import at sewerbase subase.js dot
session or null so now if we look at our
hooks we're not going to have those
squiggly lines anymore and we do have
type safety here okay now let's go ahead
and take a look at our application and
see what we have going on so if we go to
localhost 5173
we have an internal server error so we
can see here that it cannot find the
import so let me go in back into my
layout.server
and I actually need to make this say
dollar sign lib to a base and that
should be good to go okay awesome so
let's check out our application and see
what we have going on over here we can
see that we just have a very simple page
here let's learn how to register and log
in users if you click login we get
brought to a login page if we click
register we get brought to a register
page so before we actually set up
registration what we need to do is we
actually need to go into our Super Bass
dashboard here and we actually need to
go to Authentication
URL configuration and we need to change
the site URL from localhost 3000 to
localhost 5173
click save and then we'll also update
the redirect URLs as well so we'll just
say localhost 5173 and this is going to
make sure that the emails whenever our
authentication emails come to our email
addresses that they redirect us back to
the proper site okay obviously once you
deploy this you're going to want to make
sure this is something else whatever the
actual domain name of your application
is all right now let's go back into our
application you're going to minimize the
terminal and close out of this all right
so now we can go into our registration
route here and start to make sure that
we get all this set up so the first
thing we can see that we have just two
inputs here we don't actually have much
going on we just have a name as email
name is password and we have the type of
text and type of password and we have a
button okay we don't have the action set
up so let's go ahead and set that up
here so we're going to call this action
question mark slash register so the
action is going to be called register
and we'll set up the method to be post
and then within our page.server we can
use kit actions and this is part of the
spell for vs code extension there's some
Snippets they added so kit action just
adds the action object for you which is
pretty nice
we're going to say register it's going
to be asynchronous
and we're going to take in request
and locals
and then we're gonna go ahead and get
the form data from the form and convert
it into an object and if you're not
familiar with how form actions work
please go watch my form actions video
it'll definitely help out with
understanding this a bit better so we
can say const body equals object Dot
from entries
away request.form data
so whatever is submitted in that form
we're going to convert it into an object
here
and what we can do is we can say const
data
and error and we're actually going to
rename error to error and this is
because this name is going to conflict
with spell Kit's error so if we want to
throw an error we won't be able to if
the if it has the same name as this okay
and then we'll say equals await locals
dot SB right so locals.sb if you recall
from our hooks is that stupid based
client so we don't have to run this on
every single within every single action
and every single load function we can
just access it here
locals.sb and this only lasts for the
duration of that request so as soon as
request goes away locals is cleared the
next request comes in hits the hook
generates the session generates the
clients and that's how that works okay
that's the life cycle of the of the
hooks so we can do Dot auth and if you
notice if you're using typescript we
have type safety here because we added
that to our app.d.ts and we can DOT sign
up and what we're going to need is we're
going to need an email
so we can use body.email and then we
also need a password so we can use
body.password
and we're going to get some typescript
errors so we can just do add string for
each of these
and that's just because each of the
objects on the body are going to be a
form data entry value rather than a
string that this is expecting so quick
Band-Aid there and then what we can do
is we can check if it's if there's an
error so we can say if error then we can
check we can say if error instance of
off API error which is going to come
from superbase
and the error.status is equal to 400
then we want to return fail and if
you're not using the latest version of
spell kit they replaced invalid with
fail okay so make sure that you're using
the latest version if if you're having
issues with this syntax
okay and then what we can do is we can
just pass an error message here we'll
just say invalid email or password
and then otherwise we'll just return a
failure again and we'll say 500
the error is going to be a server error
please try again later
so we're doing here is if it's an issue
with the off API so basically if they
try to log in with an email that is
invalid or if they try to sign up with
an email that's invalid or a password
that doesn't meet our minimum
requirements they would get this message
here it would be a status code of 400
which is a validation error and then
anything else would be some type of
server error or network error
communicating with the server so in this
case we'll just return that it's a
server error and then if everything else
is good to go we'll just throw a
redirect to 30 or 303 status code to the
home page
okay now before we actually register a
user what I want to do is I want to have
some type of way of knowing if I did in
fact register that user properly and
everything's working so let's go into
our page.s felt here and we'll open up
some script tags I have a snippet set up
for uh script tags here but what we're
going to do is we're going to definitely
take in page data right
and the page that we're looking for is
going to be coming from the
layout.server right so we're looking for
this session here okay because remember
if the session is not valid this can
either be a session or it can be null
and basically if if the user is not
logged in or they don't have an active
session it's going to be null okay so we
can use that to our advantage when we go
to check things here in a second so what
we can do is we can come underneath this
H1 here and we'll just say if
data.session
and we'll do an L so everything else
will go here so basically if there's a
session we're gonna do something
different if there's not a session we
want to show the login and register
buttons okay so if there is a session
let's just set up a P tag with welcome
and then we'll say
data.session.user.email
so now we should be able to test out our
application here if we go into our app
and we go to register
and let's just try to sign up with a
little test email I have here
and I click register
you'll see that we were in fact
redirected to the home page right which
means that within our action here we
didn't have an error and then if we go
back to superbase and we check our
authentication panel here
we'll see that we have a new user
created it's waiting for verification so
I can verify that email here real quick
and you can see that I was redirected
back to the application and now it says
welcome Iris on a bite at gmail.com so
now it knows that we are currently
logged in as this user so now let's go
ahead and set up a log out route really
quick so we can log out and then log
back in and we can set up the login
piece so we'll create a new route called
log out and it's just going to have a
plus server.ts or dot Js
and we can use the same Snippets here we
can do kit endpoint we'll change this
from a get to a post
it's gonna be a type request Handler if
you're using typescript and we're going
to take in locals
and we're going to do is we're going to
say const error as error equals await
locals dot SB dot off DOT sign out and
then we can say if error then we want to
throw an error so we can say Throw error
which is going to come from spell kit
gonna be a 500 something went wrong
logging you out and then if there isn't
an error we're just going to throw a
redirect which is new in the latest
version of spell kit which allows us to
throw redirects from our endpoints and
we'll just redirect them to the home
page
okay so now we can actually go back into
our root page that's felt here and we
can add in that log out form so we'll
just set up a form here the action is
going to be to slash logout without the
question mark because it's an endpoint
the method is going to be post and then
within that form we're going to have a
button
with a type of submit
and a class of
button button primary
and we'll say log out okay and we can
test this out by coming back to our
application and then just clicking on
the logout button
you'll see that we got redirected the
home page and now we have this login and
register button showing here again so
now let's go ahead and log back in but
in order to do so we need to actually
set up our login form so let's go ahead
and do that now so we'll come back into
vs code and we can kind of close out of
everything for the time being we're
going to go to the page.server.ts of our
login page and we'll say kit actions and
then we'll need to import this type in
here and this action is going to be
called login
it's gonna be asynchronous of course
it's also going to take in request and
local is very similar to the register
action we'll again do the same thing
object.from entries away request.form
data
and then we'll have const data and error
as error equals oh wait locals.sb whoops
I actually said it's spelled local is
wrong up here so locals
locals.sb.off DOT sign in with password
it's going to take in an email which is
going to be body.email as string again
and password
body.password as string
and then again we can run the same error
checks so if error
if air is an instance of
auth API error
and the status is 400.
you want to return a fail
invalid credentials
let's import fail here
and then otherwise we'll return a
generic fail with 500
we'll say server error try again later
and then if all works we're just going
to throw a redirect back to the home
page
okay so inside of our page.spel we
actually need to add that action here so
we'll do question mark slash login
method will be post
then we can add type of submit to this
button here and now we should be good to
go so let's go ahead and try to log in
with that email or that user we just
created
and as you can see we are now logged in
but now you're probably asking yourself
okay everything we're doing is on the
server side how do we do things on the
client side if JavaScript is available
and if we should decide to do so so
let's go ahead and run through a
scenario real quick and that's going to
be to log out with Progressive
enhancement so what we can do is we can
actually go to our home page here where
we have our log out button and we're
going to do is we're going to set up
Progressive enhancement to log out the
user right we want to make sure
everything else still works as expected
that the data is getting invalidated
meaning we don't have a session right so
that we should get redirected back to
the home page with the two buttons
showing there login and register so
let's go ahead and set that up so what
we're going to do is we're going to set
up a submit function here which is going
to get passed into our use enhance so
this can be a type submit function
if you're using typescript I'm just
going to take in cancel only here it's
going to be asynchronous and then we're
going to do is we're going to say const
error equals await super based client
which we actually need to import from
Libs to a base dot auth dot sign out and
we can check if error then we'll just
console log the error for the time being
we could obviously handle this with a
toast or something else if you wanted to
and then we'll say cancel so we won't
actually even submit this to our server
at all so now we need to come out here
to our form for log out we say use
enhance
make sure we import that from apps forms
and then we'll just pass in this submit
logout function here okay so what should
happen now is when we log out it should
call this function here right what's
going to happen is our layout dot spell
is currently subscribed to the auth.ana
state change right which is going to
call this callback when an off event
happens and that callback is going to
say invalidate all which if we read here
causes all load functions belonging to
the currently active page to rerun which
in this case is the root layout which
means it's going to invalidate this
layout load here which is in turn going
to re-trigger
this await get server session which is
then going to
set session to null right so if we're
logging out session should become null
and we can check that these things are
actually happening so let's just set a
console log here
uh we could say ran layout load
and then we can also set up a console
log
in here we can say auth state
change detected
okay and then we can open up our console
here on the right so we can kind of
monitor this and then we can go back
into our browser here and we'll also
open up the console here so if we click
on log out we're going to see that the
off State change detected
and if we come back to our application
here we can see that it ran the layout
load so even though inside of our submit
function here we actually didn't reload
the page we actually canceled the form
submission right so had this
subscription not been into play on our
layout the page the data would never
have reloaded from this load function
meaning the session would still be valid
or it would still exist which would also
mean that we wouldn't have this login
and register button here we would
actually have the welcome user email
address here okay so this same thing can
be applied to other form actions as well
you can use the clients for example
inside of the log out we would just
Define a submit function here run the
same functions that we're running here
on the client side and then cancel the
request what's nice about this is if we
log back in
and let's just say that again for
example a user did not have JavaScript
and we click on logout
we'll see that it still works the same
way right that's the beauty of
progressive enhancement is that by
default if the JavaScript is enabled
it's going to run that function that we
have set up on our page.s felt here but
if not then it's going to just execute
the form action as expected to slash log
out which is going to have the same
result
so if you want to learn more about using
hands I just create a video on that a
couple of days ago please go check that
out there's some good information there
that you definitely don't want to miss
out on and that is going to conclude
this video on setting up authentication
with spell kit and Super Bass if you
like this content if you'd like to see
anything more with Super Bass please let
me know in the comments down below if
you got value out of this video don't
forget to like And subscribe it greatly
helps out the channel and it's 100 free
if you have any questions about this
setup we have a Discord server with over
200 members and we're growing every
single day so definitely come join the
Discord ask your questions everyone's
always willing to help and if nothing
else I will see you all in the next
video
foreign
[Music]